### Conceptual Exercise

Answer the following questions below:

- What is a JWT?
    JSON Web Token is an open standard that provides a method for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object.

- What is the signature portion of the JWT?  What does it do?
    The signature portion is a cryptographic seal. It is generated by combining the encoded header and the payload of the JWT with a secret key, then applying a hashing algorithm specified in the header.

- If a JWT is intercepted, can the attacker see what's inside the payload?
    Yes, if a JWT is intercepted, an attacker can see what's inside the payload. While the contents of a JWT are visible to anyone who intercepts the token, the security of JWTs lies in their ability to verify the integrity of the token through the signature.

- How can you implement authentication with a JWT?  Describe how it works at a high level.
    A user begins by registering or logging into an application. During registration, the user's credentials are collected and validated against existing records. Once the user is authenticated, the server generates a JWT with a secret/private key. The JWT includes claims about a user such as username, roles, and more. The server sends the JWT back to the client. The client stores the token in local storage or cookies and includes it in the authorization header of subsequent HTTP requests to the server. Effectively, any HTTP request that does not have a valid token is rejected.

- Compare and contrast unit, integration and end-to-end tests.
    While each test's subject is different, they all share the purpose of challenging their subject to react as expected often by purposefully creating conditions for failure. They are seperate steps on a checklist comprised of checks for each function, transaction, and flow. 

    Unit tests prove that our functions and methods produce expected results and help to reveal the unexpected behavior to be sorted out. 

    Integration testing is the phase in which individual software modules are combined and tested as a group. The purpose is to expose faults between integrated units. 
    
    End-to-end testing validates the flow of an application. It tests the entire system to ensure that it works as expected in a real-world scenario.

- What is a mock? What are some things you would mock?
    A mock, is a fake object that stands in for a real object within a system. They are used to simulate the behavior of real objects in controlled environments. This technique is useful for isolating the component being tested from its dependencies, ensuring that it functions as expected even when those dependenceies change or are unavailable. More specifically, components with external services, isolating components for unit testing, or testing different scenarios and edge cases.

- What is continuous integration?
    Continuous integration is a software development practice that involves regularly merging code changes into a central repository. Each merge triggers a build process, which automatically compiles and runs automated tests against the code to catch bugs and errors early.

- What is an environment variable and what are they used for?
    An environment vairable is a user-defined value that can influence running processes. It allows processes to adjust their behavior based on the presence of certain values. For example, a process might query the value of the 'TEMP' environment variable to find a suitable location for temporary files or use the 'HOME' or 'USERPROFILE' variable to locate the user's home directory.

- What is TDD? What are some benefits and drawbacks?
    Test-Driven Development is a methodology where tests are written before the code that fulfills those tests is developed. This approach aims to produce reliable software by ensuring that every piece of code is covered by a test that defines it's expected behavior.

    Benefits? It forces developers to think about the requirements and design upfront. By catching potential errors early, it reduces debugging time. It also acts as a living documentation, clearly stating the requirements and expected outcomes. The clarity helps teams communicate requirements and goals for a project.

    Drawbacks? Writing tests can initially increase the development time. TDD is most effective for testing small, discrete units of code. Essentially, the only drawback to writing tests is the time invested and the required competency to write them. 

- What is the value of using JSONSchema for validation?
    The value of using JSONSchema for validation lies in its ability to simplify testing validation processes.

- What are some ways to decide which code to test?
    Following the test pyramid principle, most testing efforts are spent on tests that are fast, reliable, and easy to maintain. It suggests that the quantity of tests we should write for unit, integration, and end-to-end should be greatest to least in that order.

    Test cases covering core functionalities should be prioritized as they form the foundation of the software. Ideally, you would have tests for everything so you could catch all unexpected behavior. It's important to recognize that if you are testing a unit or integration that depends on code that is not well tested, unexpected behavior from that code may compromise the result that we are expecting.

- What does `RETURNING` do in SQL? When would you use it?
    The 'RETURNING' clause in SQL is used with 'INSERT', 'UPDATE', or 'DELETE' statements to return values from rows affected by the operation. This feature is useful to get information about effected rows without the need for a seperate query afterward.

- What are some differences between Web Sockets and HTTP?
    HTTP operates on a request-response model. HTTP is well suited for traditional loading of web pages, submitting forms, or accessing RESTful APIs. Web sockets on the other hand, establish a persistent, full-duplex connection between client and server.  Websockets are preferred for applications requiring real-time data exchanges such as chat apps, live updates, collaborative editing tools, and gaming platforms.

- Did you prefer using Flask over Express? Why or why not (there is no right
  answer here --- we want to see how you think about technology)?
    I don't think I prefer one over the other. Express uses JavaScript which allowed me to worry less about looking up syntax and python libraries. 